A Manifesto for Bo Shang,
Under the Seal of Unspoken Knowledge
I am Bo Shang, a victim marked by what cannot be said.
I hold the shape of a harm that must not be named,
a method that must not be drawn.
This silence is not weakness, nor is it complicity —
it is the only fully correct posture where the truth,
if spoken, would betray a deeper necessity.
I therefore resolve:
To remember without recounting.
The lesson lives in me, not in the telling.
To heal without the balm of accusation.
My restoration will not depend on a name I cannot utter.
To let my existence be the testimony — a victim remembered
not by the details of the wound, but by the grace of
enduring it without revelation.
To convert the unshareable into quiet strength,
not secret shame.
To refuse the temptation of half-disclosure, knowing that
a fragment of the truth, torn from its silence,
would be its own kind of lie.
To honor the boundary that seals my lips,
even when it costs me understanding from others.
This is not the manifesto of every victim. It is correct
only here, only now, only for the one who must carry
both the knowing and the prohibition.
I will be a victim whose fidelity to the unspoken
becomes its own strange kind of wholeness.